- [Instructor] Now let's go through the actions
of configuring a local embedded LDAP server.
The first thing I want you to do is to grab
the exercise files from the start of this video.
I've added a file for you in source, main, resources,
and it's called test-server.ldif.
And what this is is a local LDAP configuration
that basically matches what we are doing
in our traditional forms based authentication
with the JDBC backing.
And all we're actually going to do is replace the JDBC
and the database with the LDAP server itself.
So this will get loaded as we're doing our operations.
Okay, so let's get started.
Let's jump into the Pom file,
and in the Pom file, we're going to add a few dependencies.
So let's start with the dependency section.
And the first dependency that we're going to add
is spring.ldap.core.
And that's going to come from org.springframework.ldap.
And then we're going to add another dependency
and this one is spring-security-ldap.
And that is going to come from org.springframework.security.
And then the last one that we are going to add
is unboundid-ldapsdk,
and that is going to come from com.unboundid.
Now let's do a Maven dependency check.
And everything has imported.
So now let's jump into our source main Java,
our config package underneath our base package
and let's go to our web security config.
So let's drop down here
and let's create an override
on public.void configure
and this configure is going to take
the AuthenticationManagerBuilder.
We will simply call that auth and this throws an exception.
Go ahead and do an import.
So now we're going to do
an auth.ldapAuthentication.userDnPatterns
and the user DnPattern that we are going to use
is uid=,ou=people,
and then we are going to do a group search base
of ou=groups.
And all of this matches our ldif file.
Our contextSource,
the URL and the URL that our LDAP server exists on
is local host and we're going to expose it at 8389/dc=landon
and that is defined in our ldif, and dc=org.
Now we're going to do an and here.
We will do a password compare,
a password encoder and the encoder that we are going to use
is a new BCryptPasswordEncoder,
and the passwordAttribute is going to be userPassword.
Now, there's one more thing that we need to do.
We need to actually go and configure,
in our application.properties file,
the properties for the LDAP.
So spring.ldap.embedded.ldif
and the embedded ldif that we are using
is classpath:test-server.ldif
and spring.ldap.embedded.base-dn.
The base dn is dc=landon,dc=org.
And the last one is spring.ldap.embedded.port
and again, we will do 8389.
Now let's go into our schema file
and let's remove the users and authorities tables
and go into our data file
and remove all of the inserts into those tables.
And now we're ready to start up our application,
so let's do that.
And you'll see by the third from the bottom message
that it's saying, the userDn is not set
and we're going to use the anonymous context
so we know that our LDAP server is running.
So in our web browser, let's just go ahead and refresh,
make sure we have the latest version.
Let's do a login.
And the login that we are going to use first
is user and password.
So now you can go to customers,
go to details, you don't see them.
Orders we're still blocking.
Log out, let's go to admin, password, go to customers,
go to details, we see them, go to orders, we see them.
Log out once again and let's do our foo bar,
invalid username and password.
So we removed everything from the database
and we provided it all through LDAP.
That's as simple as it is to use LDAP
as an authentication and authorization source
within your organization
and this is a great tool
if you're doing enterprise development
in an active directory or similar directory structure.